Welcome back, now before we go deep
into actual error handling, let's first write
a handler for undefined routes.
So basically for routes that we didn't assign
any handler yet.
And first up, we need to start our application here
which we didn't quit after the recent debugging session.
So MPM start.
And so let's wait for a database connection.
Here it is, and so let's now go to Postman here
and try to hit the route that we didn't yet define.
So I'm just gonna go ahead, copy this URL here,
all right, and so for example
let's say that instead of apiV1
tours,
we would say just api/tours.
Okay so in that case we would get this HTML result,
all right, so Express automatically sends
this HTML code here, along with a 404 Not Found
error code in case that there is not any handler
for the route that was requested, okay.
Or, we could also simply misspell tour here for example.
So for example in this case we would
still get the same error.
Now there's also another situation which is if here
after tours we specify something else,
let's say just something like this.
And so let's take a look at the error that we get,
and so now we get that the cast to object ID failed.
And that's because we actually have a route that
accepts an ID parameter here after the tour/, right.
And so MongoDB is basically trying to find a document
with this ID, but cannot convert it to a valid MongoDB
object ID, all right.
So again that is a different situation, let's just
keep working with this one, so again, where we get
this error but in this HTML form.
Now since we're doing an API here, it doesn't make
much sense to send back HTML, right, and so let's
now fix this and basically create a handle function
for all the routes that are not cached by our routers.
Okay, so let's go back to our application here
and open up app.js.
Okay, so that's basically the definition
of our Express application.
Now before doing anything else
let's actually get rid of this middleware here
that we do no longer need.
So we just used this here in order to demonstrate
the concept of middleware, and so at this point
we no longer need that.
All right now how are we gonna implement a route
handler for a route that was not cached by any
of our other route handlers?
So for doing that remember that all these middleware
functions are executed in the order they are in the code.
And so the idea is that if we have a request
that makes it into this point here of our code
then it means that neither the tourRouter
nor the userRouter were able to cache it, okay.
And so if we add a middleware here after these routers
it will only be reached again if not handled by any
of our other routers, okay.
So let's do that, and then really understand how it works
after it's already implemented.
So we're gonna implement a route handler,
and so we say app.
and now the HTTP method for which
we want to specify the route.
Now we could use get here right, so just like we did before
but then what about post requests, or delete,
or patch requests?
You would then have to write handlers for these as well,
and we don't want that, we simply want to handle
all the routes, so all the URL's, for all the verbs
right here in this one handler, okay.
And so in Express, we can use app.all.
And so that's then going to run for all the verbs,
So all the HTTP method, all right.
Next up we specify the URL, and since here
we want to handle all the URL's that were not handled
before we can use the star here, which is going
to stand for everything, all right, and then the
rest is just a regular middleware function,
just like before.
So request,
response, and next.
Okay, and what do we want to do here?
Well we simply want to send back a response
in the JSON format, so not the HTML that we have right now.
So res.status,
and here let's set a 404, so Not Found
and then a JSON response, so just like the usual one
where we set the status to fail.
So just a regular adjacent formatted response.
And then some kind of message here, and actually
let's do a template string here,
because I want to put a variable in there.
So can't,
find.
And then we can use req.originalUrl
okay, so that's a property that we have on the request
which is as the name says, the URL that was requested,
all right.
So this new response that we're going to send back now
is a lot better than the HTML that
we were receiving previously, so let's now test that out.
And indeed, now we get a JSON error message back here.
And so here we also get the URL that was requested,
and indeed it's the one that we tried to access,
but it is not available, all right, great.
Now again, why did this work?
So again the idea is that if we are able to reach
this point here then it means that the request
response cycle was not yet finished
at this point in our code, right.
Because remember that middleware is added
to the middleware stack in the order that it's
defined here in our code.
And so basically this code here runs first,
and so if the route was matched here in our tourRouter
then our request would never even reach this code,
and so then this would not get executed.
And so this should basically be the last part
after all our other routes, all right.
And if I were, just to try this out,
now put this right at the top of our application
then you will see that no matter what request
we're gonna do, we will always get this same response.
Right, so let's test that,
and indeed now we get JS error message,
and so that's because all request
now reach this route handler here, and it's actually matched
because it's a GET request, which is part of all the verbs,
right, and then all of the routes, so all of the URL's
are cached here, and so of course it handles
that URL that we just did here.
And the same of course, for example for a delete tour.
So the same thing would happen we would always
get the same response,
all right.
So let's of course put it back, but this was
just to demonstrate how and why this works,
all right.
Great so this an important part to make our API
a bit more user friendly, but next up let's now
start learning about real error handling.